# [DAC'25] ReMaP: Towards Expert-Quality Macro Placement by Recursively Prototyping and Relocating
This repository contains the code for ReMaP, a macro placement framework that generates expert-quality macro layout recursively with novel and well-designed flow of prototyping and relocating. Compared to state-of-the-art macro placers, ReMaP achieves the best WNS and TNS metrics across the eight test cases from the popular OpenROAD-flow-scripts infrastructure, with improvements of up to 34.15% in WNS and 65.39% in TNS.

We provide both implementation of our ReMaP framework, and the full scripts including evaluation metadata to replicate the **main table** in our paper.

## Build with Docker

We highly recommend the use of Docker to enable a smooth environment configuration.

The following steps are borrowed from [DREAMPlace](https://github.com/limbo018/DREAMPlace) repository. We make minor revisions to make it more clear.

1. Get the code and put it in folder `DAC25-ReMaP`.

2. Get the container:

- Option 1: pull from the cloud [limbo018/dreamplace](https://hub.docker.com/r/limbo018/dreamplace).

  ```
  docker pull limbo018/dreamplace:cuda
  ```

- Option 2: build the container.

  ```
  docker build . --file Dockerfile --tag your_name/dreamplace:cuda
  ```

3. Make sure you are in root directory of `ReMaP` (e.g. `/path/to/DAC25-ReMaP/ReMaP`). Enter bash environment of the container. Replace `limbo018` with your name if option 2 is chosen in the previous step.

   ```
   sudo docker run --gpus=all -it -v $(pwd):/workspace limbo018/dreamplace:cuda bash
   ```

4. Build.

   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../install
   make
   make install
   ```

## Get Benchmarks

In our experiments, we test our framework on cases from OpenROAD-flow-scripts [[Ajayi et al., DAC'19](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts)], containing

- ariane133
- ariane136
- black_parrot
- bp_be
- bp_fe
- bp_multi
- bp_quad
- swerv_wrapper

We upload these cases for easy access. You can download these cases from this [link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AilCFLZIBDdvmsS2VWqO9ttqNIopNnTq/view?usp=sharing).

Then unzip the package and put it under following the directory:

```
DAC25-ReMaP/ReMaP/benchmarks/or_cases
```

## Run Macro Placement Task

You can run our experiment flow with shell script:

```
bash run.sh
```

The macro placement results are stored at the following directory:

```
DAC25-ReMaP/ReMaP/install/results/${date}/${design_name}/${time}
```

## Run OpenROAD-flow-scripts for PPA Evaluation

To evaluate PPA of the macro placement results, we provide all the scripts needed for replication.

### Installation

The installation of OpenROAD is required. We recommend use the [pre-built binary](https://openroad-flow-scripts.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/BuildWithPrebuilt.html).

### Dataset Preparation

Assuming OpenROAD has been properly installed and the environment has been enabled, we should first prepare the synthesized netlist and timing constraints. Download the package [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1uweb4zQipCkS4b3uy_84UXch8XKfK8nd/view?usp=sharing) and unzip it under the following directory:

``` 
DAC25-ReMaP/OpenROAD-PPA-evaluation/results
```

Then we put the previous generated macro placement result into the directory accordingly.

Macro placement result directory: `DAC25-ReMaP/ReMaP/install/results/${date}/${design_name}/${time}/mp_out`

Target directory: `DAC25-ReMaP/OpenROAD-PPA-evaluation/results/nangate45/${design_name}/ReMaP/mp_out`

If you fail to generate macro placement results, while wishing to run the evaluation scripts, we provide ours (which are exactly generated by our code) under the following directory: `DAC25-ReMaP/ReMaP/benchmarks/or_cases/${design_name}/mp_out`. You can put it under the target directory.

### Run test

Run the evaluation script through the following bash script:

```
bash run-or.sh
